In the last lecture we have other that shoot queue interface to the comment posted markdown class.
So whenever you send this email it will always be first put on the queue and then only executed in the
background.
So this is a very good example because basically sending email is one of the best examples you can come
up with for a background job.
So this is basically supported out of the box.
But let's think of cases where you do not always want to send something as a background job sometimes
it might be really important to send the email immediately.
Well of course this doesn't only apply to emails but let's work with this example.
So sometimes you might want something to be on the queue.
Sometimes you don't.
Sometimes you want to just process this immediately.
So we've mails.
We have help and we have an option to do that.
So first we remove this implements from the Malabo class so it no longer implements this interface.
What this would do is now whenever you call sand this will immediately tried to send that email.
Now you have another option to basically put the email on a queue or not.
So the first option would be to call send and this would try to send this email immediately which means
throughout this request.
But what you can alternatively do is that email for proceed will have queue method and you also passed
our Malabo class to it.
So while this would do is now you can optionally decide whether you want to send something immediately
or put it on a queue so this would work the same.
So make sure that you have this process working all the time or started again.
BHP artisan queue work Now let's add another comment.
And this should also be put on a queue.
So you've seen the Request request was pretty fast.
Now if you will take a look at the terminal you will see that there was a job created inside the database.
It's already removed because this was processed and then you will see an email sent
now sometimes you might also want to put something on a queue but not for immediate processing so it
shouldn't be picked up as soon as possible.
You might want to do that in actually let's say 10 minutes.
We are setting something for later or even you can decide that this should be done in let's say one
week so we can do that we can create a new instance of the date using now function.
Let's add some time to it like using the add minutes.
For example one minute now instead of queue what you will do is there is another method on the mail
and this is called later so later accepts two parameters which is the delay and we'll use our when date
and the mail label class.
So what you will do now is pass when and the mail class itself so let's comment about for a second and
now let's add another comment.
So hello from the future
so you can see that the request was pretty fast but if you will go to the running process or you can
see that it doesn't process this immediately now check the database table you will see the job and now
you can see that it was created.
This is actually a UNIX timestamp and the available at parameter specifies when this job should actually
be executed.
So from now on you will have to wait one minute and only then this would be picked up by the queue process
or so.
Well there is no other way for us.
Just you have to wait one minute and then you will see that the job was processed.
Well actually I've added it some time ago.
Explain something in the meantime and you actually so life that it was processed after one minute only
after some time has passed and only then you will see an email inside the made up inbox you can even
see a few seconds ago that.
Well actually we've posted that comment a minute ago and we received that email only after one minute.
So this is how you will do do that in an email.
Of course you can also create different jobs that will be processed later not necessarily related to
email but we will see that in the next lectures.